README.markdown, before:

Formal
======

Writing forms suck, it needs to be more easier, and more... formal, formal is a form builder/helper/thing that makes designing forms fun again, Formal gives you the following things:

- a sensible stylesheet to work with
- same conventions that you are used_to like form_for, etc
- common sense abstractions like wrapping inputs with labels or giving you toggle values
- doesn't constrain you to a esoteric form building dsl, so you still have the ability to use this with the other standard rails form helpers like text_field, text_area, etc.
- some nice view helpers to do things like zebra striping 

**WARNING : I just started this so it's still under intense development, fork or use at your own risk!**

USAGE
=====
Examples below assume the fields are nested in block similar to:

    form_for @user do |f|
      # examples here
    end

Here's a simple example:

    # instead of writing this:
    form_for @user do |f|
      f.label :first_name
      f.text_field :first_name
      f.label :last_name
      f.text_field :last_name
    end

    # using formal, you can do this:
    form_for @user do |f|
      f.input_for :first_name
      f.input_for :last_name
    end

input_for :field, options={}
----------------------------
generates a text_field for an object with a label, takes the same options as text_field,
pass in the label option to change it.

EX:
      
    f.input_for :first_name
    
    # change the label
    f.input_for :first_name, :label => "Your First Name"
    
    # set a default one line text_field
    f.input_for :first_name, :default => "Please enter in your name"

    # make more changes to the label, :val is the value of the label
    f.input_for :first_name, :label => {:val => "Please enter in your name", :class => "something"}
      
password_for :field, options={}      
-------------------------------
generates a password_field for an object with a label, works just like input_for with the same exact options.

EX:

    f.password_for :password
    
    # change the label
    f.password_for :password, :label => {:val => "Enter password", :class => "pass"}

radio_for :field,'value', options={}
----------------------------
generates a radio_button with a label

EX: 
    
    # default setup
    f.radio_for :option
    
    # change the default label
    f.radio_for :option, "Select Option"

    # change the label
    f.radio_for :option, "Select your option", :label => {:class => "options"}
      
      
checkbox_for :field, options={}      
-------------------------------
generates a checkbox

EX:
    
    # default setup
    f.checkbox_for :option

    # change the label
    f.checkbox_for :option, "Select your option"

    # change the label
    f.checkbox_for :option, "Select your option", :label => {:class => "options"}

Copyright (c) 2009 [Vann Ek], released under the MIT license

Commit message:

added jquery.validate plugin, created include_formal method, updated readme, add load validations js

README.markdown, after:

Formal
======

Writing forms suck, it needs to be more easier, and more... formal, formal is a form builder/helper/thing that makes designing forms fun again, Formal gives you the following things:

- a sensible stylesheet to work with
- same conventions that you are used_to like form_for, etc
- common sense abstractions like wrapping inputs with labels or giving you toggle values
- doesn't constrain you to a esoteric form building dsl, so you still have the ability to use this with the other standard rails form helpers like text_field, text_area, etc.
- some nice view helpers to do things like zebra striping 
- includes the [jquery.validate](http://docs.jquery.com/Plugins/Validation) plugin if you don't want to use active record validation.

**WARNING : I just started this so it's still under intense development, fork or use at your own risk!**

INSTALLATION
============

- Run:

    ./script/plugin install http://github.com/vanntastic/Formal
    rake formal:install

- Add the following to your layout file (in the head) :

    <%= include_formal %>
    # if you want jquery.validate to be included (requires jquery):
    <%= include_formal :validation => true %>

USAGE
=====
Examples below assume the fields are nested in block similar to:

    form_for @user do |f|
      # examples here
    end

Here's a simple example:

    # instead of writing this:
    form_for @user do |f|
      f.label :first_name
      f.text_field :first_name
      f.label :last_name
      f.text_field :last_name
    end

    # using formal, you can do this:
    form_for @user do |f|
      f.input_for :first_name
      f.input_for :last_name
    end

input_for :field, options={}
----------------------------
generates a text_field for an object with a label, takes the same options as text_field,
pass in the label option to change it.

EX:
      
    f.input_for :first_name
    
    # change the label
    f.input_for :first_name, :label => "Your First Name"
    
    # set a default one line text_field
    f.input_for :first_name, :default => "Please enter in your name"

    # make more changes to the label, :val is the value of the label
    f.input_for :first_name, :label => {:val => "Please enter in your name", :class => "something"}
      
password_for :field, options={}      
-------------------------------
generates a password_field for an object with a label, works just like input_for with the same exact options.

EX:

    f.password_for :password
    
    # change the label
    f.password_for :password, :label => {:val => "Enter password", :class => "pass"}

radio_for :field,'value', options={}
----------------------------
generates a radio_button with a label

EX: 
    
    # default setup
    f.radio_for :option
    
    # change the default label
    f.radio_for :option, "Select Option"

    # change the label
    f.radio_for :option, "Select your option", :label => {:class => "options"}
      
      
checkbox_for :field, options={}      
-------------------------------
generates a checkbox

EX:
    
    # default setup
    f.checkbox_for :option

    # change the label
    f.checkbox_for :option, "Select your option"

    # change the label
    f.checkbox_for :option, "Select your option", :label => {:class => "options"}

Copyright (c) 2009 [Vann Ek], released under the MIT license
